Go: Add `file` sources (#16710)
github/codeql: go/ql/lib/change-notes/2024-08-12-add-file-models.md

---
category: minorAnalysis
---

> * Local source models have been added for the file APIs in the "os" package in the Go standard library.

Reviewer: I also recommend adding some information about threat models, as this is a new feature. You can copy the last sentence or two from [here](https://github.com/github/codeql/pull/16760/files#diff-e4d8dae8f74704a02f34a0b9ddd094dd24f768eee4a75cffad3a150d352eb140), maybe.

> * Local source models have been added for the file APIs in the "os" package in the Go standard library. You can optionally include threat models as appropriate when using the CodeQL CLI and in GitHub code scanning. For more information, see [Analyzing your code with CodeQL queries](https://docs.github.com/code-security/codeql-cli/getting-started-with-the-codeql-cli/analyzing-your-code-with-codeql-queries#including-model-packs-to-add-potential-sources-of-tainted-data>) and [Customizing your advanced setup for code scanning](https://docs.github.com/code-security/code-scanning/creating-an-advanced-setup-for-code-scanning/customizing-your-advanced-setup-for-code-scanning#extending-codeql-coverage-with-threat-models).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Local source models have been added for the APIs which open files in the `io/fs`, `io/ioutil` and `os` packages in the Go standard library. You can optionally include threat models as appropriate when using the CodeQL CLI and in GitHub code scanning. For more information, see [Analyzing your code with CodeQL queries](https://docs.github.com/code-security/codeql-cli/getting-started-with-the-codeql-cli/analyzing-your-code-with-codeql-queries#including-model-packs-to-add-potential-sources-of-tainted-data>) and [Customizing your advanced setup for code scanning](https://docs.github.com/code-security/code-scanning/creating-an-advanced-setup-for-code-scanning/customizing-your-advanced-setup-for-code-scanning#extending-codeql-coverage-with-threat-models).
```
